---
layout : post
title : 'Using rd.break to Reset the Root Password'
tags : [RHCSA, RHCSA_mod, Applying Essential Troubleshooting Skills, Making Grub Changes persistent]
categories: [RHCSA]
---


While on the previous versions of RHEL, resetting the root password or
logging on to a system where the root password isn’t know was relatively
easy. After the introduction of systemd, breaking into the system is a
lot harder to do.

First we have to enter the line `rd.break` and pass it as a kernel
parameter in the boot menu (at the end of the kernel line). The
**rd.break** parameter instructs the next part of the boot procedure,
**initrd**, to break at a specific location of the *initramfs*. This
brings us to a system where all the supporting modules are available,
but no file system has yet been mounted. This parameter bring us to a
root shell without prompting for a root password.

We’re in such an early point in the boot procedure that the system root
hasn’t been mounted to the usual `/` location yet, and is available at
`/sysroot` in read-only mode. Now, we need to mount the system root in a
read-write mode using:

``` console
# mount -o remount,rw /sysroot
```

Next, we make the content of `/sysroot` the current root directory
using:

``` console
# chroot /sysroot
```

Now, we simply echo the new password to the passwd utility and reset the
password for the user root. The syntax is: `echo <newPassword> | passwd
--stdin root`. The root password thus has to be reset using the command:

``` console
# echo secret | passwd --stdin root
Changing password for the user root.
passwd: all authentication tokens updated successfully.
# touch /.autorelabel
```

Finally, in the last line, we instruct SELinux to auto-relable. Since
we’re so early in the boot procedure, SELinux isn’t functional, and if
we skip this command, our changes will be lost. Now, at this point, it
is safe to *CTRL+D* a couple of times and let the OS reboot itself. Once
done, we can enter the OS using the root password we just set (*secret*
in our case). Now, after the reboot, we can login to the system as root
using the new root password.
